title (
Archetypes
)
head (
# Experimental Archetypes
This section is dedicated to archetypes that deviate significantly from the standard rules for archetypes. Any notable rules deviations will be (hopefully) addressed within each archetype.
)

# Magician ((+Magician))
You have found a way to turn your skills at sleight of hand and deception into performance art, even weaving elements of the occult into your practice.
**Additional Feats:** **2nd** Concealing Legerdemain (*Advanced Player's Guide* 204), **4th** Quick Draw (*Core Rulebook* 172).
item(
# Magician Dedication ((++Dedication))
## Feat 2
-
; archetype, dedication, skill
**Prerequisite** trained in Thievery and Deception
-
You are skilled at small feats of deception and prestidigitation, much to the delight of your audience. Choose either Deception or Thievery. You can roll that skill check instead of a Performance check when using the Perform action.
**Special** You cannot select another dedication feat until you have gained two other feats from the Stage Illusionist archetype.
)

item (
# Illusion's Eye ((++Illusion's Eye))
-
## Feat 2
; archetype
**Prerequisite** Magician Dedication
-
You have spent so much time creating practical illusions that you are able to see through the illusions of others. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to both Pereception checks and Will saves against illusions. When you come within 10 feet of an illusion that can be disbelieved, the GM rolls a secret check for you to disbelieve it, even if you didn't spend an action to Interact with the illusion.
If you have the Illusion Sense ancestry feat, the bonus to Perception and Will saves against illusions increases to +2.
)

item(
# Great Entertainer ((++Great Entertainer))
## Feat 4
-
; archetype, general, skill
**Prerequisite** Magician Dedication
-
Your talent at prestidigitation and legerdemain are exceptional. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Perform checks using Thievery. If you are a master in Thievery, this bonus increases to +2.
)

|

note(
# Archetype Skill Feats
The Magician Dedication is specifically marked as a Skill Feat. This means that a character can select this Archetype Dedication as a Class Feat or as a Skill Feat. In addition, for games using the optional Free Archetype rule variant, this Dedication can be selected with an Archetype Feat.


)

item(
# Occult Illusion ((++True Illusion))
## Feat 4
-
; archetype
**Prerequisite** Magician Dedication
-
You've learned tidbits of occult that further aid your performance. You gain *light*, *ghost sound*, *prestidigation*, and *message* as innate occult cantrips. These cantrips gain the illusion trait (if they did not have it already).
)

item(
# Weaver of Illusions
## Feat 6
-
; archetype
**Prerequisite** Occult Illusion
-
Your dabbling in illusions and the occult has developed into actual spell-casting. Choose 1 1st-level occult spell. You can Cast this Spell as an innate occult spell. At 8th level, you gain a 2nd-level occult spell, and at 10th level, you gain a 3rd-level occult spell. Each of these spells must have the illusion trait. You can cast each of these spells once per day.
)

=

item(
# Dimension Drop ((++Dimension Drop)) :aa:
## Feat 7
-
; archetype, occult, skill, manipulate
**Prerequisite** Magician Dedication, expert in Thievery
-
Through great practice and a certain flair for the occult, you have gained the ability to drop a small object in the possession of a nearby creature up to 10' away, even in pockets or bags seemingly impossible for you to have accessed. You can attempt a Thievery check to attempt to extra-dimensionally deposit an object of negligible bulk in a pocket, bag, or container on the target. The container can be sealed or locked, as long as the protections are non-magical in nature. Compare the result of your check against the target's Perception DC.
**Success** You successfully plant the object without the target noticing your effort.
**Failure** You fail to plant the object on the target.
**Critical Failure** The target becomes aware that you are trying to manipulate their belongings, although they may believe you are attempting to steal from them instead of plant an item. The GM determines the response of any creature that notices your behavior.
**Special** If you are legendary at Thievery, you may plant an object on a creature up to 30' away from you.
)

item(
# Lord of Illusions
## Feat 12
-
; archetype
**Prerequisite** Weaver of Illusions
-
Your skill at weaving illusions has increased. Your proficiency in casting your innate illusion spells gained from the Magician archetype increases to expert. You gain a 4th-level occult spell. At 14th level, you gain a 5th-level occult spell and at 16th level, you gain a 6th level occult spell. All of these spells must have the illusion trait. You can cast each of these spells once per day.
)
|

